Add transport docs page, update sitemap (#3858)
graphql-dotnet/graphql-dotnet: docs2/site/docs/getting-started/transport.md

    #### graphql-transport-ws
    - `connection_init` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to initialize the connection.
    - `connection_ack` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to acknowledge the connection.
    - `connection_error` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that an error occurred while establishing the connection.
    - `ka` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message periodically to keep the client connection alive.
    - `connection_terminate` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to terminate the connection.
    - `start` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to start a GraphQL operation.
    - `data` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to send the GraphQL execution result.
    - `error` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that an error occurred during the GraphQL operation.
    - `complete` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that the GraphQL operation is complete.
    - `stop` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to stop a running GraphQL operation.

> - Payload - (Optional, object): The payload of the message. The payload is only used for *subscribe*, *GQL_DATA*, *GQL_ERROR*, and *GQL_COMPLETE* messages.

Reviewer: This should probably be updated since we've replaced the constants with the actual values.  It might also be good to mention the data type required for start/subscribe messages (GraphQLRequest) and data/error messages (ExecutionResult).

Reviewer: Everything else looks great!

Author: ```suggestion
- Payload - (Optional, object): The payload of the message. The payload is only used for *subscribe*, *data*, *error*, and *complete* type messages. For client side messages, the payload is a `GraphQLRequest`. For server messages, the payload is an `ExecutionResult`. 
```

Are all messages that use payload mentioned in here?

Reviewer: Well the `connection_init` message may pass arbitrary data, usually used for authentication information when connecting from a browser.  `connection_ack` may pass arbitrary data also.  For GraphQL-WS, `error` has an `ExecutionError` rather than an `ExecutionResult` instance.  But for `subscriptions-transport-ws`, `error` has an entire `ExecutionResult`.  `ping` and `pong` may also transfer arbitrary data.

Reviewer: It may not be so important to list all the payload details here, either.  GraphQL.NET Server will take care of these details for the most part.  It might suffice to say "the payload is dependent on the message, typically a `GraphQLRequest` or `ExecutionResult` instance", or something along those lines.

> # Transport
> The `GraphQL.Transport` namespace contains classes and interfaces that handle the communication between a GraphQL client and server, as well as the serialization and deserialization of GraphQL objects.
> ## GraphQLRequest
> `GraphQLRequest` is a class that represents a [*GraphQL-over-HTTP request*](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-over-http/blob/master/spec/GraphQLOverHTTP.md#request) sent by client. It contains the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Transport

The `GraphQL.Transport` namespace contains classes and interfaces that handle the communication between a GraphQL client and server, as well as the serialization and deserialization of GraphQL objects.

## GraphQLRequest

`GraphQLRequest` is a class that represents a [*GraphQL-over-HTTP request*](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-over-http/blob/master/spec/GraphQLOverHTTP.md#request) sent by client. It contains the following properties:
```

Reviewer: Adds spacing

- `OperationName` - (Optional, string): The name of the Operation in the Document to execute.
- `Query` - (Required, string): The string representation of the Source Text of a GraphQL Document as specified in the Language section of the GraphQL specification.
- `Variables` - (Optional, Inputs): Values for any Variables defined by the Operation.
- `Extensions` - (Optional, Inputs): This entry is reserved for implementors to extend the protocol however they see fit.

**Note:** the *Query* property can be null in case of [persisted queries](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/performance/apq/) when a client sends only SHA-256 hash of the query in *Extensions* given that corresponding key-value pair has been saved on a server beforehand

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Both of these protocols are used by the [Apollo Client](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/) library. The message contains the following properties:
- Id - (Optional, string): The id of the message.
- Type - (Required, string): The type of the message. Can be one of the following:
    #### GraphQL-WS
    - `connection_init` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to initialize the connection.
    - `connection_ack` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to acknowledge the connection.
    - `error` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that an error occurred.
    - `ping` - Bidirectional. Client or Server sends this message to keep the connection alive.
    - `pong` - Bidirectional. Client or Server sends this message to keep the connection alive.
    - `subscribe` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to subscribe to a GraphQL subscription.
    - `next` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that a new value has been received for a GraphQL subscription.
    - `complete` - Bidirectional. This message indicate that the GraphQL subscription has completed.

    #### graphql-transport-ws

>     - `GQL_CONNECTION_INIT` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to initialize the connection.
>     - `GQL_CONNECTION_ACK` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to acknowledge the connection.
>     - `GQL_CONNECTION_ERROR` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that an error occurred while establishing the connection.
>     - `GQL_CONNECTION_TERMINATE` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to terminate the connection.
>     - `GQL_START` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to start a GraphQL operation.
>     - `GQL_DATA` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to send the GraphQL execution result.
>     - `GQL_ERROR` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that an error occurred during the GraphQL operation.
>     - `GQL_COMPLETE` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that the GraphQL operation is complete.
>     - `GQL_STOP` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to stop a running GraphQL operation.

Reviewer: These are constants and the actual string values.  I recommend using the actual string values to match the above.

```suggestion
    - `connection_init` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to initialize the connection.
    - `connection_ack` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to acknowledge the connection.
    - `connection_error` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that an error occurred while establishing the connection.
    - `ka` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message periodically to keep the client connection alive.
    - `connection_terminate` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to terminate the connection.
    - `start` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to start a GraphQL operation.
    - `data` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to send the GraphQL execution result.
    - `error` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that an error occurred during the GraphQL operation.
    - `complete` - Server -> Client. Server sends this message to indicate that the GraphQL operation is complete.
    - `stop` - Client -> Server. Client sends this message to stop a running GraphQL operation.
```

Reviewer: Also `ka` was missing so I added it.

- Payload - (Optional, object): The payload of the message. The payload is only used for *subscribe*, *GQL_DATA*, *GQL_ERROR*, and *GQL_COMPLETE* messages.

> **Note:** s mentioned in [Apollo Client](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/subscriptions/#websocket-setup) documentation, the *graphql-transport-ws* is a legacy protocol and should not be used in new applications. The *GraphQL-WS* protocol is the recommended protocol to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** As mentioned in [Apollo Client](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/subscriptions/#websocket-setup) documentation, the *graphql-transport-ws* is a legacy protocol and should not be used in new applications. The *GraphQL-WS* protocol is the recommended protocol to use.
```

## IGraphQLSerializer & IGraphQLTextSerializer

> Serialize and deserialize object hierarchies to/from a `stream` and `string` respectively. Should include special support for `ExecutionResult` , `Inputs` and transport-specific classes as necessary. Dotnet-GraphQL provides `Newtonsoft.Json` and `System.Text.Json` as default implementations of this interfaces. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serialize and deserialize object hierarchies to/from a `Stream` and `string` respectively. Should include special support for `ExecutionResult` , `Inputs` and transport-specific classes as necessary. GraphQL.NET provides `Newtonsoft.Json` and `System.Text.Json` as default implementations of these interfaces. 
```

> 
> Simple example of `System.Text.Json` serializer in a asp.net controller is shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simple example of `System.Text.Json` serializer in an ASP.Net Core controller is shown below:
```

*Program.cs*
```csharp
builder.Services.AddGraphQL(options =>
    {
        options.AddSystemTextJson();
        options.AddSchema<FooSchema>();
    });
```

*Controller.cs*
```csharp
public GraphQLController(ISchema schema, IDocumentExecuter executer, IGraphQLTextSerializer serializer)
    {
        _schema = schema;
        _executer = executer;
        _serializer = serializer;
    }

[HttpPost]
public async Task<IActionResult> Post([FromBody] GraphQLRequest query)
    {
        var result = await _executer.ExecuteAsync(options =>
            {
                options.Schema = _schema;
                options.Query = query.Query;
            }).ConfigureAwait(false);

>             if (result.Errors?.Count > 0)
>             {
>                 return BadRequest();
>             }
> 
>             return Ok(_serializer.Serialize(result));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Response.StatusCode = (int)(result.Executed ? HttpStatusCode.OK : HttpStatusCode.BadRequest);
        return Content(_serializer.Serialize(result), "application/graphql-response+json", System.Text.Encoding.UTF8);
```

Reviewer: This represents the recommended behavior after 1/1/2025, excluding optional support for `Accept: application/json`.  Notice that when `Executed` is `true` the status code is 200, even if a failure occurs during execution.  Only for validation errors does 400 get returned.

The current recommended behavior prior to 1/1/2025 is to use `application/json` (unless requested otherwise via the `Accept` header) and always return 200, as it may be difficult to discern GraphQL failures from proxy server failures.

For more details see the draft HTTP over GraphQL spec.

Reviewer: Note that GraphQL.NET Server currently adopts the 1/1/2025 behavior in general.  It does also support `Accept: application/json`, however the response status code does not vary depending on the response content type.  See `GraphQLHttpMiddlewareOptions.ValidationErrorsReturnBadRequest`.
